Document how to create a api route. (#7587)
Scille/parsec-cloud: docs/development/how_to_add_a_route.md

        case DummyBadOutcome.ORGANIZATION_NOT_FOUND:
            client_ctx.organization_not_found_abort()
```

This function will mostly contain error management logic. The component will also contain a generic method, that will be overrode in the memory and postgresql implementations.

> Note that some common error like organization not found have helpers that return the appropriate error.

```python
    async def do_dummy(
        self,
        # parameters found in client_ctx and req
    ) -> None | DummyBadOutcome:
        raise NotImplementedError
```

Your errors must inherit from `BadOutcomeEnum`

The real implementation will happen in a Memory or postgresql component.

```python
class MemoryDummyComponent(BaseDummyComponent):
    def __init__(self, data: MemoryDatamodel, event_bus: EventBus) -> None:
        super().__init__()
        self._data = data
        self._event_bus = event_bus

    @override
    async def do_dummy(
        self,
        # parameters found in client_ctx and req
    ) -> None | DummyBadOutcome:
        print("There are ",len(self._data.organizations), " organizations here.")
```

## Server tests

> 
> In import the new test file in `server/tests/api_v4/xxxxx/init.py`. It must be named `test_{new command name}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the new test file `server/tests/api_v4/xxxxx/dummy.py`. It should contain a test function for each response status (see other command's tests as a guide on how to write them).

Import the new test file in `server/tests/api_v4/xxxxx/__init__.py`. It must be named `test_{new command name}` (e.g. `test_dummy`).   
```

> Start a new testbed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start a new testbed (TODO instructions)
```

> `test_each_cmd_req_rep_has_dedicated_test` will fail if a test per output are missing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`test_each_cmd_req_rep_has_dedicated_test` will fail if a test function is missing
```

> ## Client side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Client-side implementation
```

<!-- Parsec Cloud (https://parsec.cloud) Copyright (c) BUSL-1.1 2016-present Scille SAS -->

> The goal of this document is to cover all the necessary steps to add an API route to Parsec.

Reviewer 2: Instead of a"API route", I'd would talk about "API RPC command" given we have `invitated_cmds`/`authenticated_cmds`/`anonymous_cmds` modules that contains the schemas of those RPC commands (and "API route" may seem to refer to the administration REST API which is a totally unrelated component).

Reviewer 2: so I guess this file should be renamed to something like `how_to_add_a_rpc_cmd.md`

In summary:
1. Add the schema describing the new API route
2. Generate binding code and serialization tests
3. Implement server-side code (In-memory & PostgreSQL) and tests
4. Implement client-side code and tests

> Note that you will need a working development environment. See (./README.md).

> ## Schema generation

Reviewer 2: There is multiple markdown syntax error in the file, here is a patch to fix them

```
$ git apply how_to_add_a_route.md.patch.txt
```

[how_to_add_a_route.md.patch.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/15903059/how_to_add_a_route.md.patch.txt)

Let's add a new `dummy` route to `invited_cmds`.

> > API routes are also called "commands" in Parsec. There are three command families: `anonymous_cmds` (authentication not required), `authenticated_cmds` (authentication required) and `invited_cmds` (invitation required).

Reviewer 2: I think you can move this comment at the beginning of the file (hence this would explain the naming of the file) and also add a line about the unrelated administration REST API:

```suggestion
> Client-to-server RPC API routes are also called "commands" in Parsec. There are three command families: `anonymous_cmds` (authentication not required), `authenticated_cmds` (authentication required) and `invited_cmds` (invitation required).
>
> Note there is another unrelated API for administration purpose that uses REST instead of RPC (as it is expected to be used by admin using curl), this documentation doesn't cover it.
```

```json5
[
    {
        "major_versions": [
            4
        ],
        "req": {
            "cmd": "dummy",
            "fields": [
                {
                    "name": "dummy_field",
                    "type": "String"
                }
            ]
        },
        "reps": [
            {
                "status": "dummy_rep_with_fields",
                "fields": [
                    {
                        "name": "dummy_rep_field",
                        "type": "String"
                    }
                ]
            },
            {
                "status": "dummy_rep_without_fields",
            }
        ]
    }
]

```
For a full description of the accepted format see [the parsing/generating script](../../misc/gen_protocol_typings.py).

> Note that the files are .json5. This is to allow for comments inside these files. But the parser we are using only supports .json files and we're removing the comments ourselves. So don't use any other specific feature of the json5 format (trailing commas, I'm looking at you 👀).

Then from the root directory, run the following scripts to generate binding code.

```shell

> python make.py r

Reviewer 2: This is the wrong command, it should be `python misc/gen_protocol_typings.py`

Author: Ok so first we should run gen_protocol_typing and then make.py r ?

Reviewer 2: they are orthogonal:

- `gen_protocol_typing.py` regenerates some python files that gets commited to the project
- `make.py r` (re)build `server/parsec/_parsec.cpython-312-x86_64-linux-gnu.so`

Modifying Python file doesn't invalidate `server/parsec/_parsec.cpython-312-x86_64-linux-gnu.so` so there is no need to run `make.py r` after `gen_protocol_typing.py`.

What is misleading is the reason for running `gen_protocol_typing.py` is because the protocol schema have been updated... which is also a reason to run `make.py r` ! (so you could say `make.py r` and `gen_protocol_typing.py` are cousin as they are triggered by the same reason, but don't have a parenting relationship between them.

Author: Ok so if stuff is changed everywhere, we need to run both in either order ?

Reviewer 2: > Ok so if stuff is changed everywhere, we need to run both in either order ?

yup ! ^^

```

> This will rebuild the bindings (use option `i` to install) and modify the following files:

Reviewer 2: with `make.py r` we only rebuild the bindings

    - `server/parsec/_parsec_pyi/protocol/__init__.pyi`
    - `server/parsec/_parsec_pyi/protocol/xxxxxx_cmds/v4/__init__.pyi`
    - `server/tests/common/rpc.py`

```shell
python misc/gen_protocol_typings.py
```

> This will generate the .pyi files and some helpers for the tests. The generated code is in `/target` directory.

Reviewer 2: I'd would remove the `The generated code is in `/target` directory` given we never look into this folder when working with python (once `./make.py r` is run, the python module is automatically copied to `server/parsec/_parsec.cpython-312-x86_64-linux-gnu.so`
